README.md, before:

## FANTASY CONSOLES/COMPUTERS

<p xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/">
  <a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">
    <img src="https://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png" style="border-style: none;" alt="CC0" />
  </a>
</p>

This is a list of available fantasy consoles/computers. Including softwares which simulate virtual hardwares, with limited functionality. And always encourage creating and sharing tiny retro games and programs with built-in languages and tools.

FC | Language | Price & License | Platform | Display
---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ----
[BASIC8](https://paladin-t.github.io/b8/) by Tony Wang | [BASIC](https://paladin-t.github.io/b8/docs/manual) | [$14.99](https://store.steampowered.com/app/767240/) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 160×128
[CHROMA-60](https://arkia.itch.io/chroma-60) by Arkia | ASM | [Free](https://arkia.itch.io/chroma-60) | Windows, Linux | 240x135
[Click4](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4) by Josef Patoprsty | ASM | [Free](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4/blob/master/license.txt) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 64x64
[CToy](https://github.com/anael-seghezzi/CToy) by Anaël Seghezzi | C | [Free](http://anael.maratis3d.com/ctoy/bin/), [zlib](https://github.com/anael-seghezzi/CToy) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 128×128
[DRAK-0](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0) by Drew Wibbenmeyer | ChaiScript, LuaJIT (coming soon) | [NYOP](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0) | Windows | 320x240
[DX8](https://betajaen.itch.io/dx8) by Robin Southern | ASM | [Free](https://betajaen.itch.io/dx8), [MIT](https://github.com/betajaen/dx8) | Windows | 320x256
[ECoS](https://mljware.itch.io/ecos) by MLJWare | Lua | [NYOP](https://mljware.itch.io/ecos) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 128x128
[FAZIC](https://fazic.fazibear.me/) by Michał Kalbarczyk | [BASIC](https://fazic.fazibear.me/help) | [Free](https://fazic.fazibear.me/fazic) | Browser | 320x240
[G-eon](https://github.com/G-eon/g-eon-wiki/wiki) by Memorix101 | JavaScript | [NYOP](https://memorix101.itch.io/g-eon) | Windows, Linux, Raspberry Pi | 640x480
[IBNIZ](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/) by viznut | [Instructions](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/ibniz.txt) | [Free](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/), [zlib](https://github.com/viznut/IBNIZ/tree/master/src/licence.txt) | Windows, Linux | 256x256
[Leikr16](https://github.com/Torbuntu/Leikr16) by Torbuntu | Groovy, Java, Python | Free, [Apache](https://github.com/Torbuntu/Leikr16) | Linux, Windows | 320x240
[LIKO-12](https://ramilego4game.itch.io/liko12) by RamiLego4Game | Lua | [NYOP](https://ramilego4game.itch.io/liko12), [MIT](https://github.com/RamiLego4Game/LIKO-12) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 192x128
[LowRes Coder](http://lowres.inutilis.com) by Timo Kloss | [BASIC](http://lowres.inutilis.com/app-user-guide/) | [$4.99 (F2P)](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/lowres-coder-program-retro/id962117496?mt=8) | iOS | Up to 128×128
[LowRes NX](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/) by Timo Kloss | [BASIC](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/manual.php) | [Free](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/), [LGPL-3.0](https://github.com/timoinutilis/lowres-nx) | Windows, macOS, iOS | 160×128
[MakeCode Arcade](https://arcade.makecode.com/) by Microsoft | [Blocks](https://arcade.makecode.com/---docs#doc:reference), JavaScript, TypeScript | [Free](https://arcade.makecode.com/), [MIT](https://github.com/Microsoft/pxt-arcade) | Browser | 160x120
[nano Jammer](https://morgan3d.github.io/nano/) by Morgan McGuire | [nano](https://morgan3d.github.io/nano/doc/specification.md.html) | Free, [BSD](https://github.com/morgan3d/nano/) | Browser | 64x64
[NEKO8](https://egordorichev.itch.io/neko8) by Egor Dorichev | Lua, BASIC, ASM, MoonScript | [NYOP](https://egordorichev.itch.io/neko8), [?](https://github.com/egordorichev/neko8) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 192x128
[Phosphor](https://mlepage.github.io/phosphor/) by Marc Lepage | Lua | [Free](https://mlepage.github.io/phosphor/), [MIT](https://github.com/mlepage/phosphor) | Browser | 192x128
[PICO-8](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php) by Lexaloffle | Lua | [$14.99](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Raspbery Pi | 128x128
[Pix64](https://zappedcow.itch.io/pix64) by ZappedCow | PNG | [NYOP](https://zappedcow.itch.io/pix64) | Windows, Linux | 64x64
[Pixel Vision 8](https://www.pixelvision8.com/) by Pixel Vision 8 | Lua | [Free (Limited tools), $9.99 (All tools), $1/mo (All versions plus extras)](https://www.pixelvision8.com/fantasy-console-club) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 256x240
[Prism-384](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384) by Grapefruitopia Industries | JavaScript | [Free](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384), [$5](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384) | Browser, Windows, macOS | 384x216
[PuzzleScript](https://www.puzzlescript.net/), [DungeonScript](http://dungeonscript.farbs.org/) by Stephen Lavelle | [Instructions](https://www.puzzlescript.net/Documentation/documentation.html) | [Free](https://www.puzzlescript.net/), [MIT](https://github.com/increpare/PuzzleScript) | Browser | Configurable, Voxel (DungeonScript)
[PX8](https://hallucino.itch.io/px8) by hallucino | Lua, Python | [NYOP](https://hallucino.itch.io/px8), [MIT](https://github.com/Gigoteur/PX8) | Windows, macOS, Linux | Configurable
[Riko4](https://github.com/incinirate/riko4) by Bryan | Lua | [Free](https://github.com/incinirate/Riko4/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/incinirate/riko4) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 280x160
[SCRIPT-8](https://script-8.github.io/) by Gabriel Florit | JavaScript | [Free](https://script-8.github.io/), [MIT](https://github.com/script-8/script-8.github.io) | Browser | 128x128
[SmileBASIC](http://smilebasic.com/en/) by SmileBoom | [BASIC](http://smilebasic.com/en/e-manual/) | [$9.99](http://smilebasic.com/en/buynow/) | 3DS | 400x240, 320x240
[Tako 80](https://github.com/pistacchio/tako80) by pistacchio | JavaScript | Free, [MIT](https://github.com/pistacchio/tako80) | Browser | 160x144
[TEC Redshift](https://store.steampowered.com/app/948420/EXAPUNKS_TEC_Redshift_Player) by Zachtronics | EXA | Free | Windows, macOS, Linux | 120x100x19
[TIC-80](https://tic.computer) by Vadim Grigoruk | Lua, MoonScript, JavaScript | [Free, $5 (Pro)](https://tic.computer/create), [MIT](https://github.com/nesbox/TIC-80) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 240x136
[VectorBoy](https://melloland.itch.io/vectorboy) by David Jalbert | Lua | [NYOP](https://melloland.itch.io/vectorboy) | Windows | Vector
[Voxatron](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php) by Lexaloffle | [micro-scripting](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php?page=resources) | [$19.99](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php) | Windows, macOS, Linux | Voxel
[VVpet](https://github.com/gardrek/VVpet) by Gardrek | Lua | Free, [?](https://github.com/gardrek/VVpet) | Löve | 64x64x2, 128x128x4, Configurable
[Zany80](https://zany80.github.io) by Noam Preil | [Z80 ASM, C89](https://zany80.github.io/documentation/programming/) | [Free](https://zany80.github.io/downloads.html), [Apache](https://github.com/zany80) | Windows, Linux, [Browser](https://zany80.github.io/native/emscripten/) | Serial I/O

* Ordered by: alphabet.
* Language: Mean built-in language(s) for end users, not the language in which it was created.
* NYOP: Name Your Own Price.

People find it difficult to search for this kind of software to play with, so the definition is relaxed for choosing available consoles. However, it's fairly simple to tell if one is **not** a fantasy console/computer:

1. Hardware such as RaspberryPi and Gamebuino are not
2. Emulators of real hardware (eg. NES, C64, DOSBox) are not
3. Generic graphics libraries and game engines are not
4. Programming IDEs and editors are not
5. Minecraft is not

As things keep evolving, feel free to update this list, or correct any mistakes. Pull requests are welcome.

Commit message:

Update TEC Redshift description
TEC Redshift is part of EXAPUNKS game.
Full game is required to code for Redshift.

README.md, after:

## FANTASY CONSOLES/COMPUTERS

<p xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/">
  <a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/">
    <img src="https://i.creativecommons.org/p/zero/1.0/88x31.png" style="border-style: none;" alt="CC0" />
  </a>
</p>

This is a list of available fantasy consoles/computers. Including softwares which simulate virtual hardwares, with limited functionality. And always encourage creating and sharing tiny retro games and programs with built-in languages and tools.

FC | Language | Price & License | Platform | Display
---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ----
[BASIC8](https://paladin-t.github.io/b8/) by Tony Wang | [BASIC](https://paladin-t.github.io/b8/docs/manual) | [$14.99](https://store.steampowered.com/app/767240/) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 160×128
[CHROMA-60](https://arkia.itch.io/chroma-60) by Arkia | ASM | [Free](https://arkia.itch.io/chroma-60) | Windows, Linux | 240x135
[Click4](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4) by Josef Patoprsty | ASM | [Free](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/josefnpat/click4/blob/master/license.txt) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 64x64
[CToy](https://github.com/anael-seghezzi/CToy) by Anaël Seghezzi | C | [Free](http://anael.maratis3d.com/ctoy/bin/), [zlib](https://github.com/anael-seghezzi/CToy) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 128×128
[DRAK-0](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0) by Drew Wibbenmeyer | ChaiScript, LuaJIT (coming soon) | [NYOP](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/drako0812/DRAK-0) | Windows | 320x240
[DX8](https://betajaen.itch.io/dx8) by Robin Southern | ASM | [Free](https://betajaen.itch.io/dx8), [MIT](https://github.com/betajaen/dx8) | Windows | 320x256
[ECoS](https://mljware.itch.io/ecos) by MLJWare | Lua | [NYOP](https://mljware.itch.io/ecos) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 128x128
[FAZIC](https://fazic.fazibear.me/) by Michał Kalbarczyk | [BASIC](https://fazic.fazibear.me/help) | [Free](https://fazic.fazibear.me/fazic) | Browser | 320x240
[G-eon](https://github.com/G-eon/g-eon-wiki/wiki) by Memorix101 | JavaScript | [NYOP](https://memorix101.itch.io/g-eon) | Windows, Linux, Raspberry Pi | 640x480
[IBNIZ](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/) by viznut | [Instructions](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/ibniz.txt) | [Free](http://pelulamu.net/ibniz/), [zlib](https://github.com/viznut/IBNIZ/tree/master/src/licence.txt) | Windows, Linux | 256x256
[Leikr16](https://github.com/Torbuntu/Leikr16) by Torbuntu | Groovy, Java, Python | Free, [Apache](https://github.com/Torbuntu/Leikr16) | Linux, Windows | 320x240
[LIKO-12](https://ramilego4game.itch.io/liko12) by RamiLego4Game | Lua | [NYOP](https://ramilego4game.itch.io/liko12), [MIT](https://github.com/RamiLego4Game/LIKO-12) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 192x128
[LowRes Coder](http://lowres.inutilis.com) by Timo Kloss | [BASIC](http://lowres.inutilis.com/app-user-guide/) | [$4.99 (F2P)](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/lowres-coder-program-retro/id962117496?mt=8) | iOS | Up to 128×128
[LowRes NX](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/) by Timo Kloss | [BASIC](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/manual.php) | [Free](https://lowresnx.inutilis.com/), [LGPL-3.0](https://github.com/timoinutilis/lowres-nx) | Windows, macOS, iOS | 160×128
[MakeCode Arcade](https://arcade.makecode.com/) by Microsoft | [Blocks](https://arcade.makecode.com/---docs#doc:reference), JavaScript, TypeScript | [Free](https://arcade.makecode.com/), [MIT](https://github.com/Microsoft/pxt-arcade) | Browser | 160x120
[nano Jammer](https://morgan3d.github.io/nano/) by Morgan McGuire | [nano](https://morgan3d.github.io/nano/doc/specification.md.html) | Free, [BSD](https://github.com/morgan3d/nano/) | Browser | 64x64
[NEKO8](https://egordorichev.itch.io/neko8) by Egor Dorichev | Lua, BASIC, ASM, MoonScript | [NYOP](https://egordorichev.itch.io/neko8), [?](https://github.com/egordorichev/neko8) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 192x128
[Phosphor](https://mlepage.github.io/phosphor/) by Marc Lepage | Lua | [Free](https://mlepage.github.io/phosphor/), [MIT](https://github.com/mlepage/phosphor) | Browser | 192x128
[PICO-8](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php) by Lexaloffle | Lua | [$14.99](https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Raspbery Pi | 128x128
[Pix64](https://zappedcow.itch.io/pix64) by ZappedCow | PNG | [NYOP](https://zappedcow.itch.io/pix64) | Windows, Linux | 64x64
[Pixel Vision 8](https://www.pixelvision8.com/) by Pixel Vision 8 | Lua | [Free (Limited tools), $9.99 (All tools), $1/mo (All versions plus extras)](https://www.pixelvision8.com/fantasy-console-club) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 256x240
[Prism-384](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384) by Grapefruitopia Industries | JavaScript | [Free](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384), [$5](https://grapefruitopia.itch.io/prism-384) | Browser, Windows, macOS | 384x216
[PuzzleScript](https://www.puzzlescript.net/), [DungeonScript](http://dungeonscript.farbs.org/) by Stephen Lavelle | [Instructions](https://www.puzzlescript.net/Documentation/documentation.html) | [Free](https://www.puzzlescript.net/), [MIT](https://github.com/increpare/PuzzleScript) | Browser | Configurable, Voxel (DungeonScript)
[PX8](https://hallucino.itch.io/px8) by hallucino | Lua, Python | [NYOP](https://hallucino.itch.io/px8), [MIT](https://github.com/Gigoteur/PX8) | Windows, macOS, Linux | Configurable
[Riko4](https://github.com/incinirate/riko4) by Bryan | Lua | [Free](https://github.com/incinirate/Riko4/releases), [MIT](https://github.com/incinirate/riko4) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 280x160
[SCRIPT-8](https://script-8.github.io/) by Gabriel Florit | JavaScript | [Free](https://script-8.github.io/), [MIT](https://github.com/script-8/script-8.github.io) | Browser | 128x128
[SmileBASIC](http://smilebasic.com/en/) by SmileBoom | [BASIC](http://smilebasic.com/en/e-manual/) | [$9.99](http://smilebasic.com/en/buynow/) | 3DS | 400x240, 320x240
[Tako 80](https://github.com/pistacchio/tako80) by pistacchio | JavaScript | Free, [MIT](https://github.com/pistacchio/tako80) | Browser | 160x144
[TEC Redshift](http://www.zachtronics.com/exapunks/) by Zachtronics | EXA | [$19.99](https://store.steampowered.com/app/716490/EXAPUNKS/) (game with editor) ([free player](https://store.steampowered.com/app/948420/EXAPUNKS_TEC_Redshift_Player/) with no editor) | Windows, macOS, Linux | 120x100x19
[TIC-80](https://tic.computer) by Vadim Grigoruk | Lua, MoonScript, JavaScript | [Free, $5 (Pro)](https://tic.computer/create), [MIT](https://github.com/nesbox/TIC-80) | Windows, macOS, Linux, Android | 240x136
[VectorBoy](https://melloland.itch.io/vectorboy) by David Jalbert | Lua | [NYOP](https://melloland.itch.io/vectorboy) | Windows | Vector
[Voxatron](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php) by Lexaloffle | [micro-scripting](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php?page=resources) | [$19.99](https://www.lexaloffle.com/voxatron.php) | Windows, macOS, Linux | Voxel
[VVpet](https://github.com/gardrek/VVpet) by Gardrek | Lua | Free, [?](https://github.com/gardrek/VVpet) | Löve | 64x64x2, 128x128x4, Configurable
[Zany80](https://zany80.github.io) by Noam Preil | [Z80 ASM, C89](https://zany80.github.io/documentation/programming/) | [Free](https://zany80.github.io/downloads.html), [Apache](https://github.com/zany80) | Windows, Linux, [Browser](https://zany80.github.io/native/emscripten/) | Serial I/O

* Ordered by: alphabet.
* Language: Mean built-in language(s) for end users, not the language in which it was created.
* NYOP: Name Your Own Price.

People find it difficult to search for this kind of software to play with, so the definition is relaxed for choosing available consoles. However, it's fairly simple to tell if one is **not** a fantasy console/computer:

1. Hardware such as RaspberryPi and Gamebuino are not
2. Emulators of real hardware (eg. NES, C64, DOSBox) are not
3. Generic graphics libraries and game engines are not
4. Programming IDEs and editors are not
5. Minecraft is not

As things keep evolving, feel free to update this list, or correct any mistakes. Pull requests are welcome.
